# 2.4 - Incentives and Proof of Work

Can we give nodes incentives to behave honestly?
Can we penalize attackers?

Incentive 1: Block Reward

- Creator of block gets to include a coin-creation transaction in block

The block creator can only "collect" the reward if their block ends up on the concensus chain.
Reward is halved every 4 years.
There's a total supply of 21 million bitcoins, what happens when it runs out?

Incentive 2: Transaction fee
Creator of any transaction can choose to make the output value less than input value.
For example, when Alice is paying Bob. She can choose the output value less than input value.
Remainder is a transaction fee to the block creator.

## Remaining Problems

1. How to pick a random node
2. Avoid a free-for-all due to rewards? Everyone can run a bitcoin node
3. Prevent Sybil attacks. Adversary can create a large number of sybil nodes

All of these are solved by proof of work.

## Proof of Work

Approximate selecting a random node by selecting nodes based on a resource that no one can monopolize (computing power=proof of work, ownership=proof-of-stake)

Views to look at proof of work:

1. select nodes in proportion to computing power
2. nodes compete to create block
3. make it moderately hard to create new identities

## Bitcoin Proof of Work

**Hash puzzles**
To create block: find nonce such that H(nonce || prev_hash || tx || ... || tx) is very small.
If hash function is secure, only way to succeed is to try enough nonces until you get lucky.

Note: the output space is very large compared to the target space.

This is the fundamental problem that a node is required to solve in order to produce a block.

Three properties of Proof of Work:

1. difficult to compute 10^20 hashes per block
2. parameterizable cost - nodes recalculate target every 2 weeks. Main every succuessive block is created every 10 minutes.
   If there are more nodes/miners, the target will change, and a miner will reqire more power to compute a block.
   So the % chance of creating next block = comput power / gobal compute power
3. trivial to verify - other miners simply have to verify that
   `H(nonce || prev_hash || tx || ... || tx)` is less than target.
