# 1.5 - A Simple Cryptocurrency

## Rules for GoofyCoin

1. Goofy can create new coins
   Each coin is signed by Goofy
   Has a public key
   CreateCoin() generates a unique coin ID

Data strucuture:

- signed by Goofy
- unique coin ID

2. Whoever owns a coin can pass it onto someone else
   To pay someone, create a hash pointer to the original coin
   Pay to pk-Alice
   This payment is also signed by Goofy
   Now Alice owns the coin.
   She can prove that she owns the coin because she can present the new data structure signed by Goofy.

Data structure here:

- signed by Goofy
- Hash pointer to original coin

Now Alice can spend the coin as well.
Payment will now be signed by Alice

Data structure:

- signed by Alice
- Hash pointer to previous step

## Double Spend problem

What if Alice uses this coin twice.
This is the main problem that a cryptocurrency has to address.

Now we introduce ScrougeCoin:

- Scrouge publishs a history of all transactions (a blockchain signed by Scrouge)
- Each data block has: Hash pointer to previous block, transaction ID, transaction data

This history allows us to detect double-spending.
When Alice tries to double pay to Charlie, Charlie can see that Alice already paid the coin to Bob.

ScrougeCoin has 2 kinds of transactions:

1. Create coin
2. Pay coin, consumes some coins, and create new coins of the same total value

Pay coin transaction is valid if:

1. consumed coins are valid
2. total value out = total value in
3. signed by owners of all consumed coins
   Once accepted, Scrouge will write it into the history of the blockchain.

To subdivide coin:
Consume 1 coin, create new coins with totals of the same value.

Problem with ScrougeCoin:

- Scourge misbehaves
- Scourge stops recording transactions
  This is a centralization problem.
  We need to get rid of this centralization figure.
