# 4.2 - Hot and Cold Storage

Hot storage - onine, convenient but risky
Cold storage - offline, archival but safer

Each side should have its own secret key
Each side need to know each other's addresses, so that coins can be transferred back and forth

Hot storage can send coins to cold storage.

When we transfer from hot to cold, we'd like there to be a new cold address.
We need a way for hot side to find out about those address while the cold storage is offline.

Awkward solution:
Cold storage to generate a big batch of addresses at once.
Transfer addresses to hot side.
Drawback is that we need to connect to cold side once we use up the addresses.

## Hierarchical Keys

More effective solution: Hierarchical wallets
Recall that `generateKeys()` produces a public key (an address) and a private key

Now we use `generateKeysHier()`, produces address generation info, and private key gen info.
Now we can generate keys given these information.

To generate address:
use generate address info, call `genAddr()` with some integer `i`. This will generate the i'th address.
similarily call `genKey()` with the same integer `i` to get the corresponding private key.

**Key Property** `genAddr()` does not leak keys, and can be freely distributed.
So anyone can generate the i'th address.

Not all key generation schemes support hierarchical keys, but `ECDSA` used by Bitcoin does.
So hot-side can get the generate address info.
While cold-side retains the generate key info.

## How to store cold info

1. store on a device, then in a safe
2. encrypt info under a passphrase that user remembers
3. Paper wallet, print info on paper, lock up paper
4. in temperproof device, device will sign keys for you, but never divulge keys
