# 3.2 - Bitcoin Scripts

Most common script is to redeem a previous transaction by signing with a correct public key.
Output "addresses" are really scripts.
Input address is also a script
Combine them, and you get a script that has to run successfully to get a coin.
Input Script is called `scriptSig` because it contains a signature.
Output script is called `scriptPubKey` because it contains the public address.
Example Script:

```
OP_DUP
OP_HASH160
69e02e18...
OP_EQUIVALVERIFY OP_CHECKSIG
```

## Bitcoin Scripting Language

The bitcoin scripting language is just called script, built specifically for bitcoin.
Design goals:

- simple, compact
- support cyrptography
- no loops, means we can tell how much memory it will use

Only way to write data to memory is to push it onto stack.
1st part:
`<sig>` this is a data, and is automatically pushed onto stack
`<pubKey>`, pushed onto stack
2nd part:
`OP_DUP` take the top value of stack, pop it off, and write 2 values to top of the stack.
now there is another <pubKey> data on the stack
`OP_HASh160` take top value of stack, and generate hash of this value
now the <pubKey> data is changed to <pubKeyHash>
`<pubKeyHash?>` public key the sender specified to generate these coins,
`OP_EQUALVERIFY` ensures that the top 2 hashes are equal
This ensures that the receiving address is correct
now we only have 2 items on the stack <pubKey> and <sig>
`OP_CHECKSIG`

Now there's nothing left on the stack.

## Bitcoin script instructions

Only 256 instructions total

- arithmetic
- if/then
- logic/data handling
- cryptography: hashes, signature verification

**Note** multi-sig verification pops 1 extra value off of stack.
So to use it, just insert a dummy variable in place.
This is not used heavily.

## Proof of Burn

A script that can never be redeemed.
Anything after `OP_RETURN` will not be looked at.
`OP_RETURN`
`<arbitrary data>`

Two applications:

- write additional data to blockchain
- bootstrap an alternative coin, force people to burn bitcoin to get new coin

## Use of Hash to Redeem

Idea is to have the sender only need to use a hash of the script that is needed to redeem coins.
This just compares the hash of the redemtion script to see if they're equal.

```
OP_HASH160
<hash of redemption script>
OP_EQUAL
```

Add this script on top:

```
<signature>
<<pubkey> OP_CHECKSIG>
```

So the receiver just have to specify the right script, then the transaction will verify.
This is called `pay to a script hash` as to the alternative `pay to a public key`
This removes complexity from the sender, so the recipient can just specify a hash that the sender sends money to.
