# 3.3 - Application of Bitcoin Scripts

## Example 1: Escrow Transactions

Alice wants to buy online from Bob. Bob ships the goods to Alice.
Neither want to be the first to act.

**Solution**
Introduce 3rd party to execute transactions.
Alice sends money by creating a MULTISIG transaction that requires 2+ people to sign in order to redeem the coins (Alice, Bob, Judy).
This fund is now held in escrow, any 2 of the 3 people can specify where the coin can go.

After Bob sends the goods, Alice is ready to release the money from escrow.
Alice and Bob can both sign the transaction, and Bob can redeem the funds.

What if Bob sends the wrong item?
Alice starts the dispute with Judy.
Judy decides who should get the money.

## Example 2: Green Addresses

Alice wants to pay Bob, but Bob isn't online to check if the transaction is there.
Remember we want 6 validations, which requires about 1 hour.

Introduce another 3rd party, the bank.
Bank then pays bob from the bank address. This address provides a guarantee that the money will not be double-spent

If Bob trusts the bank, then he can be sure he received the money once he verfies the bank's signature.

But this isn't used as much in practice

## Example 3: Micro-payments

Alice wants to pay a small amount of money to Bob.
Say pay an amount for everyone minute on cell phone. It is impractical to create so many transactions, and the fees add up quickly.

Create a MULTISIG transaction that contains the maximum amount that Alice would need to spend, requiring both Alice and Bob to sign to release the coin.
Alice keeps sending Bob updated transactions to reflext incremental minutes.
When Alice finishes the service, she will tell Bob that she's done using the service.
Bob will then use the last transaction that Alice sent.

Only the last one is signed by Bob, and the rest are discarded.

What if Bob never signs the last transaction?
Solution = locktime
Before the transaction starts, both Alice and Bob sign a transaction that demands a timed refund.
But this is locked for sometime in the future.

## More Advanced Scripts

- multiplayer lotteries
- hash pre-image challenges
- coin-swapping protocols
