# 3.5 - Bitcoin Network

It's a peer-to-peer network where all nodes are equal.
Runces over TCP (on port 8333) with random topology.
Forgets non-responding nodes after 3 hours.

## To Join

Just need to know 1 node in the network, `seed node`.
Send a special message `getaddr()` to get all the address that the `seed node` knows.
Then send `getaddr()` to those node address to get to know more nodes.
Then choose the ones to network with.

## Transaction Propagation

Once a node hears a transaction, it validates it with the current block chain.
Has the option to ignore unknown scripts.
Make sure the transaction hasn't been seen before.
Doesn't conflict with another transaction already relayed (avoid double-spend).

Transaction/blocks may conflict

- whoever mines the next block will decide which transaction gets added
- default is to accept what you hear first

## Block Propagation

Other nodes check to ensure enough 0's in the hash.
Also valids to ensure only valid transactions in the block (run all scripts)
Only build on current longest chains

## Fully Validating nodes

- Permanently connected
- Store entire block chain
- Hear and forward every node/transaction
- Maintain the entire set of UTXO (unspent transaction output) - prefer to store in ram

## Lightweight nodes

- vast majority of network
- don't store the entire block chain, only store specific pieces required
- dont' care about transactions that don't affect you
- they can only check the block header, have to rely on fully-validating nodes
